# Oral_Cancer_Prediction
This model helps to predict if a person has Oral Cancer or not based on image. It uses Deep Learning models
In recent years, deep learning has achieved great success in many fields, such as computer vision and natural language processing. Compared to traditional machine learning methods, deep learning has a strong learning ability and can make better use of data sets for feature extraction. Because of its practicability, deep learning becomes more and more popular for many researchers to do research works. In this paper, we mainly introduce some advanced neural networks of deep learning and their applications. Besides, we also discuss the limitations and prospects of deep learning.
Oral cancer is one of the larger cancer types worldwide . However,  it does  not have a screening program unlike some other cancer types. Without a screening program it is hard to discover the cancer in time. Since it is crucial to discover  oral cancer in time, most people who are affected by it suffer either by morbidity or mortality[14].
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) is a type of deep learning network constructed to mimic the animal visual cortex . CNNs have been proven to produce high accuracy for image classification tasks and has won the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge (ILSVCR) the last years . The architecture is built up by layers which creates a volume with a width, height and depth. The layers consists of neurons with learn able parameters. During the training these parameters are updated with the purpose of increasing the performance of the networks predictions. When training a CNN the neurons starts to identify different features in the image which in the end results in the networks prediction . The biggest part of CNNs are the Convolutional layers. In these layers the input is convolved with the neurons in the layer to produce an output. The capability of classifying images in a high rate can be applied to many different fields.
